[AGENTCFG-331] Updating Secrets Management documentation to add a new way of retrieving secrets (#30712)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/agent/configuration/secrets-management.md

[1004]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_use_switch-role-ec2.html
[1005]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/managedservices/latest/userguide/defaults-instance-profile.html
[1006]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_use_switch-role-ec2_instance-profiles.html

{{% /collapse-content %}} 

{{% collapse-content title="AWS SSM" level="h4" expanded=false id="id-for-anchoring" %}}
The following AWS services are supported:

|"secret_backend_type" value                                | AWS Service                             |
|---------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|
|`aws.ssm` |[AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store][1001] |

##### Set up an Instance profile

Datadog recommends using the [instance profile method][1006] of retrieving secrets, as AWS handles all environment variables and session profiles for you. More instructions on how to do this can be found at the official [AWS Secrets Manager documentation][1001].

#### Datadog.yaml configuration

The AWS System Manager Parameter Store supports a hierachical model. For example, assuming the following AWS System Manager Parameter Store paths:

> ```sh
> /DatadogAgent/Production/ParameterKey1 = ParameterStringValue1
> /DatadogAgent/Production/ParameterKey2 = ParameterStringValue2
> /DatadogAgent/Production/ParameterKey3 = ParameterStringValue3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh
/DatadogAgent/Production/ApiKey = <your api key>
/DatadogAgent/Production/ParameterKey2 = ParameterStringValue2
/DatadogAgent/Production/ParameterKey3 = ParameterStringValue3
```

Author: Done.

```

The parameters can be fetched like so:

```yaml
# datadog.yaml
secret_backend_type: aws.ssm
secret_backend_config:
  aws_session:
    aws_region: us-east-1

> api_key: "ENC[/path/to/your/api/key]"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
api_key: "ENC[/DatadogAgent/Production/ApiKey]"
```

Author: Done.

##### Supported backends

The following HashiCorp services are supported:

| "secret_backend_type" value                               | HashiCorp Service                                  |
| ------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------- |
| [hashicorp.vault](#hashicorp-auth-session) | [HashiCorp Vault (Secrets Engine Version 1)][3000] |
| [hashicorp.vault](#hashicorp-auth-session) | [HashiCorp Vault (Secrets Engine Version 2)][3000] |

#### General instructions to set up HashiCorp Vault
1. Run your HashiCorp Vault. For more information, see the [official HashiCorp Vault documentation][3001]. 
2. Write a policy that gives the permission to pull secrets from your vault--create a `*.hcl` file, and include the following permission if using Secrets Engine Version 1:
```
path "<your mount path>/<additional subpath>" {
  capabilities = ["read"]
}
```
If using Secrets Engine Version 2, then the following permissions are needed:
```
path "<your mount path>/data/<additional subpath>" {
  capabilities = ["read"]
}

path "sys/mounts" {
  capabilities = ["read"]

> }

Reviewer: Let's add a small line, maybe as a comment in the code snippet to explain why we need this for V2. WDYT ?

{{% /collapse-content %}} 

{{% collapse-content title="JSON or YAML File Secret Backends" level="h4" expanded=false id="id-for-anchoring" %}}

| "secret_backend_type" value                                 | File Service                             |
|---------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|
|[file.json](#json-backend-settings)          |[JSON][4001]                             |
|[file.yaml](#yaml-backend-settings)          |[YAML][4002]                             |

##### File permissions
The file backend only requires read permissions for the configured JSON or YAML files. These permissions must be granted to the local Datadog Agent user (`dd-agent` on Linux, `ddagentuser` on Windows).

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "JSON File Backend" %}}

**Note**: Only one level of JSON depth is supported (for example, `{"key": "value"}`)

##### Datadog.yaml configuration

You can use a JSON file to store secrets locally.

As an example if we have a JSON file in `/path/to/secret.json` containing:

```json
{
  "datadog_api_key": "your api key"
}
```

You can use the following configuration to pull secrets from it:

```yaml
# datadog.yaml

> api_key: "ENC[{datadog_api_key}]"

Reviewer: Since the above line says `You can use the following configuration to pull secrets from it:` I think it's obvious that the example match the JSON above.

## Overview

The Datadog Agent helps you securely manage your secrets by integrating with the following secrets management solutions:

> - AWS Secrets Manager
> - AWS SSM
> - Azure KeyVault
> - HashiCorp Vault
> - File JSON
> - File YAML

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [AWS Secrets Manager]()
- [AWS SSM]()
- [Azure KeyVault]()
- [HashiCorp Vault]()
- [File JSON]()
- [File YAML]()
```

**Note**: You cannot use the `ENC[]` syntax in `secret_*` settings like `secret_backend_command`.

## Options for retrieving secrets

### Option 1: Using native Agent support for fetching secrets

**Note**: This option is not available for FIPS-enabled Agents at this time.

Starting in Agent version `7.70`, the Datadog Agent natively supports several secret management solutions. Two new settings have been introduced to `datadog.yaml`: `secret_backend_type` and `secret_backend_config`. 

`secret_backend_type` is used to specify which secret management solution to use, and `secret_backend_config` holds additional configuration relevant to that solution.

```yaml
# datadog.yaml

secret_backend_type: <backend_type>
secret_backend_config:
  <KEY_1>: <VALUE_1>
```

More specific setup instructions depend on the backend type used. Refer to the appropriate section bellow for further information: 

> {{% collapse-content title="AWS Secrets" level="h4" expanded=false id="id-for-anchoring" %}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{% collapse-content title="AWS Secrets" level="h4" expanded=false id="id-for-secrets" %}}
```

## Overview

The Datadog Agent helps you securely manage your secrets by integrating with the following secrets management solutions:
- AWS Secrets Manager
- AWS SSM
- Azure KeyVault
- HashiCorp Vault
- File JSON
- File YAML

Instead of hardcoding sensitive values like API keys or passwords in plaintext within configuration files, the Agent can retrieve them dynamically at runtime. To reference a secret in your configuration, use the `ENC[<secret_id>]` notation. The secret is fetched and loaded in memory but is never written to disk or sent to the Datadog backend.

**Note**: You cannot use the `ENC[]` syntax in `secret_*` settings like `secret_backend_command`.

## Options for retrieving secrets

### Option 1: Using native Agent support for fetching secrets

**Note**: This option is not available for FIPS-enabled agents at this time.

Starting in Agent version `7.70`, the Datadog Agent natively supports several secret management solutions. Two new settings have been introduced to `datadog.yaml`: `secret_backend_type` and `secret_backend_config`. 

> `secret_backend_type` is used to specify which secret management solution to use, and `secret_backend_config` holds additional configuration relevant to that solution:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`secret_backend_type` is used to specify which secret management solution to use, and `secret_backend_config` holds additional configuration relevant to that solution.
```

```yaml
# datadog.yaml

secret_backend_type: <backend_type>
secret_backend_config:
  <KEY_1>: <VALUE_1>
```

More specific setup instructions depend on the backend type used. Refer to the appropriate section bellow for further information: 

{{% collapse-content title="AWS Secrets" level="h4" expanded=false id="id-for-anchoring" %}}
The following AWS services are supported:

|"secret_backend_type" value                                | AWS Service                             |
|---------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|
|`aws.secrets` |[AWS Secrets Manager][1000]                 |

##### Set up an Instance profile

Datadog recommends using the [instance profile method][1006] of retrieving secrets, as AWS handles all environment variables and session profiles for you. More instructions on how to do this can be found at the official [AWS Secrets Manager documentation][1000].

#### Datadog.yaml configuration

> Configure the DataDog Agent to user `AWS Secrets` to resolve secrets using the following configuration:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Configure the DataDog Agent to use `AWS Secrets` to resolve secrets using the following configuration:
```

```yaml
# datadog.yaml
secret_backend_type: aws.secrets
secret_backend_config:
  aws_session:
    aws_region: {regionName}
```

> After configuring the Agent to use AWS Secrets, you can refer to any secrets in your configurations with `ENC[secretId;secretKey]`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After configuring the Agent to use AWS Secrets, you can reference any secrets in your configurations with `ENC[secretId;secretKey]`. 
```

> The ENC notation is composed of:
> * `secretId`: either the secret "friendly name" (ex: `/DatadogAgent/Production`) or the ARN (ex: `arn:aws:secretsmanager:us-east-1:123456789012:secret:/DatadogAgent/Production-FOga1K`).
>   - **Note**: The full ARN format is required when accessing secrets from a different account where the AWS credential or `sts:AssumeRole` credential is defined.
> * `secretKey`: the JSON key from the AWS secret that you want to use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ENC notation is composed of:
* `secretId`: either the secret "friendly name" (for example, `/DatadogAgent/Production`) or the ARN (forexample, `arn:aws:secretsmanager:us-east-1:123456789012:secret:/DatadogAgent/Production-FOga1K`).
  - **Note**: The full ARN format is required when accessing secrets from a different account where the AWS credential or `sts:AssumeRole` credential is defined.
* `secretKey`: the JSON key from the AWS secret that you want to use.
```

[1004]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_use_switch-role-ec2.html
[1005]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/managedservices/latest/userguide/defaults-instance-profile.html
[1006]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_use_switch-role-ec2_instance-profiles.html

{{% /collapse-content %}} 

{{% collapse-content title="AWS SSM" level="h4" expanded=false id="id-for-anchoring" %}}
The following AWS services are supported:

|"secret_backend_type" value                                | AWS Service                             |
|---------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|
|`aws.ssm` |[AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store][1001] |

##### Set up an Instance profile

Datadog recommends using the [instance profile method][1006] of retrieving secrets, as AWS handles all environment variables and session profiles for you. More instructions on how to do this can be found at the official [AWS Secrets Manager documentation][1001].

#### Datadog.yaml configuration

The AWS System Manager Parameter Store supports a hierachical model. For example, assuming the following AWS System Manager Parameter Store paths:

```sh

> /DatadogAgent/Production/ApiKey = < your api key >

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
/DatadogAgent/Production/ApiKey = <YOUR_API_KEY>
```

secret_backend_config:
  aws_session:
    aws_region: us-east-1

api_key: "ENC[/DatadogAgent/Production/ApiKey]"
property1: "ENC[/DatadogAgent/Production/ParameterKey1]"
property2: "ENC[/DatadogAgent/Production/ParameterKey2]"
```

[200]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/systems-manager-parameter-store.html
[201]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/

[1000]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager/latest/userguide/intro.html
[1001]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/systems-manager-parameter-store.html
[1002]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkref/latest/guide/standardized-credentials.html
[1003]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-configure.html 
[1004]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_use_switch-role-ec2.html
[1005]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/managedservices/latest/userguide/defaults-instance-profile.html
[1006]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_use_switch-role-ec2_instance-profiles.html

{{% /collapse-content %}} 

{{% collapse-content title="Azure Keyvault Backend" level="h4" expanded=false id="id-for-anchoring" %}}

> ##### Supported backends

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

The following Azure services are supported:

| "secret_backend_type" value                            | Azure Service          |
| ----------------------------------------|------------------------|
| `azure.keyvault` | [Azure Keyvault][2000] |

##### Azure authentication

> Datadog recommends using Managed Identities to authenticate with Azure. This allows you associate cloud resources with AMI accounts and removes the need to put sensitive information in your `datadog.yaml` configuration file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Datadog recommends using Managed Identities to authenticate with Azure. This allows you to associate cloud resources with AMI accounts and removes the need to put sensitive information in your `datadog.yaml` configuration file.
```

##### Managed identity

To access your Key Vault, create a Managed Identity and assign it to your Virtual Machine. Then, configure the appropriate role assignment on the Key Vault to allow that identity to access its secrets.

> #### Datadog.yaml configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
##### Datadog.yaml configuration
```

The backend configuration for Azure Key Vault secrets is structured as YAML following this schema:

```yaml
# datadog.yaml
secret_backend_type: azure.keyvault
secret_backend_config:
  keyvaulturl: {keyVaultURL}
```

> The backend secret is referenced in your Datadog Agent configuration file with `ENC`--here is an example where a plaintext secret needs to be retrieved:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The backend secret is referenced in your Datadog Agent configuration file with `ENC`. The following is an example where a plaintext secret needs to be retrieved:
```

```yaml
# datadog.yaml

api_key: "ENC[secretKeyNameInKeyVault]"
```

[2000]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/Azure/key-vault/secrets/quick-create-portal

{{% /collapse-content %}} 

{{% collapse-content title="HashiCorp Vault Backend" level="h4" expanded=false id="id-for-anchoring" %}}
##### Supported backends

The following HashiCorp services are supported:

> | "secret_backend_type" value                               | HashiCorp Service                                  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| secret_backend_type value                               | HashiCorp Service                                  |
```

| ------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------- |
| `hashicorp.vault` | [HashiCorp Vault (Secrets Engine Version 1 and 2)][3000] |

#### General instructions to set up HashiCorp Vault
1. Run your HashiCorp Vault. For more information, see the [official HashiCorp Vault documentation][3001]. 

> 2. Write a policy that gives the permission to pull secrets from your vault--create a `*.hcl` file, and include the following permission if using Secrets Engine Version 1:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Write a policy that gives the permission to pull secrets from your vault. Create a `*.hcl` file, and include the following permission if using Secrets Engine Version 1:
```

```
path "<your mount path>/<additional subpath>" {
  capabilities = ["read"]
}
```
If using Secrets Engine Version 2, then the following permissions are needed:
```
path "<your mount path>/data/<additional subpath>" {
  capabilities = ["read"]
}

/*

> We need access to mount information to check the Secrets Engine version

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Datadog needs access to mount information to check the Secrets Engine version
```

number. If access isn't granted, version 1 is assumed.
*/
path "sys/mounts" {
  capabilities = ["read"]
}
```
3. Then, run `vault policy write <policy-name> <path to *.hcl file>`

4. Choose the method of authenticating to your vault. If using the AWS instance profile method, run `vault auth enable aws`. 

#### AWS instance profile instructions

Datadog recommends that you authenticate using the [instance profile method][3003] if you are running your HashiCorp Vault from an AWS-connected machine.

After this has been set up, write an [authentication-specific vault policy][3004].

> #### Configuration example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
##### Configuration example
```

In the following example, assume the HashiCorp Vault secret path prefix is `/Datadog/Production` with a parameter key of `apikey`:

```sh

> /DatadogAgent/Production/apikey: (SecureString) "<your api key>"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
/DatadogAgent/Production/apikey: (SecureString) "<your_api_key>"
```

```

The following example fetches the API key value from HashiCorp Vault leveraging AWS for authentication.

```yaml
# datadog.yaml
api_key: "ENC[/Datadog/Production;apikey]" 

secret_backend_type: hashicorp.vault
secret_backend_config:
  vault_address: http://myvaultaddress.net
  vault_session:
    vault_auth_type: aws
    vault_aws_role: Name-of-IAM-role-attached-to-machine
    aws_region: us-east-1 // this field is optional, and will default to us-east-1 if not set
```
<!-- HASHICORP LINKS -->
[3000]: https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/vault/static-secrets

> [3001]: https://www.hashicorp.com/en/products/vault

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[3001]: https://developer.hashicorp.com/
```

[3002]: https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/auth/aws#aws-auth-method
[3003]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_use_switch-role-ec2_instance-profiles.html
[3004]: https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/auth/aws#iam-authentication-inferences
{{% /collapse-content %}} 

{{% collapse-content title="JSON or YAML File Secret Backends" level="h4" expanded=false id="id-for-anchoring" %}}

> | "secret_backend_type" value                                 | File Service                             |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| secret_backend_type value                                 | File Service                             |
```

|---------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|
|`file.json`           |[JSON][4001]                             |
|`file.yaml`          |[YAML][4002]                        |                            |

##### File permissions
The file backend only requires read permissions for the configured JSON or YAML files. These permissions must be granted to the local Datadog Agent user (`dd-agent` on Linux, `ddagentuser` on Windows).

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "JSON File Backend" %}}

**Note**: Only one level of JSON depth is supported (for example, `{"key": "value"}`)

##### Datadog.yaml configuration

You can use a JSON file to store secrets locally.

> As an example if we have a JSON file in `/path/to/secret.json` containing:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, a JSON file in `/path/to/secret.json` containing:
```

```json
{

>   "datadog_api_key": "your api key"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  "datadog_api_key": "your_api_key"
```

## Overview

> The Datadog Agent help you securely manage you secrets by integrating with a number of external secrets management solutions:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Datadog Agent helps you securely manage your secrets by integrating with the following secrets management solutions:
```

- AWS Secrets Manager
- AWS SSM
- Azure KeyVault
- Hashicorp Vault
- File JSON
- File YAML

Instead of hardcoding sensitive values like API keys or passwords in plaintext within configuration files, the Agent can retrieve them dynamically at runtime. The secret is fetched and loaded in memory but is never written to disk or sent to the Datadog backend.

**Note**: You cannot use the `ENC[]` syntax in `secret_*` settings like `secret_backend_command`.

## Options for retrieving secrets

### Option 1: Using native Agent support for fetching secrets

*Note*: This option is not yet available for Windows.

> Starting in Agent version `7.69`, the Datadog Agent natively support a number of secret management solution. Two new settings have been introduce to the datadog.yaml to support this: `secret_backend_type` and `secret_backend_config`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Starting in Agent version `7.69`, the Datadog Agent natively supports several secret management solutions. Two new settings have been introduced to `datadog.yaml`: `secret_backend_type` and `secret_backend_config`. 
```

```json
{
    "ddapikey": "SecretValue1",
    "ddappkey": "SecretValue2",
    "ddorgname": "SecretValue3"
}
```

To reference a specific key within that secret, use a semicolon (`;`) to separate the secret name from the key. The notation in the `datadog.yaml` config file is `ENC[SecretName;SecretKey]`. 

If this semicolon is not present, the entire JSON is treated as a plaintext value of the secret.
When the semicolon is used, `SecretKey` refers to the specific JSON key whose value you want to retrieve from within `MySecret`:

```yaml
# datadog.yaml
api_key: "ENC[MySecret;ddapikey]"
app_key: "ENC[MySecret;ddappkey]"
property3: "ENC[MySecret;ddorgname]"
secret_backend_type: azure.keyvault
secret_backend_config:
  keyvaulturl: {keyVaultURL}
```

[2000]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/Azure/key-vault/secrets/quick-create-portal

{{% /collapse-content %}} 

{{% collapse-content title="Hashicorp Vault Backend" level="h4" expanded=false id="id-for-anchoring" %}}
##### Supported backends

**Note**: Only version 1 of the Hashicorp Secrets Engine is supported at this time.

> The following Hashicorp services are supported:
> 
> | "secret_backend_type" value                               | Hashicorp Service                                  |
> | ------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------- |
> | [hashicorp.vault](#hashicorp-auth-session) | [Hashicorp Vault (Secrets Engine Version 1)][3000] |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following HashiCorp services are supported:

| "secret_backend_type" value                               | HashiCorp Service                                  |
| ------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------- |
| [hashicorp.vault](#hashicorp-auth-session) | [HashiCorp Vault (Secrets Engine Version 1)][3000] |
```

#### General instructions to set up Hashicorp Vault
1. Run your Hashicorp Vault. For more information, see the [official Hashicorp Vault documentation][3001]. 
2. Write a policy that gives the permission to pull secrets from your vault--create a `*.hcl` file, and include the following permission:
```
path "<your path>" {
  capabilities = ["read"]
}
```
3. Then, run `vault policy write <policy-name> <path to *.hcl file>`

4. Choose the method of authenticating to your vault. If using the AWS instance profile method, run `vault auth enable aws`. 

#### AWS instance profile instructions

> Datadog recommends that you authenticate using the [instance profile method][3003] if you are running your Hashicorp Vault from an AWS-connected machine.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Datadog recommends that you authenticate using the [instance profile method][3003] if you are running your HashiCorp Vault from an AWS-connected machine.
```

| "secret_backend_type" value                                 | File Service                             |
|---------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|
|[file.json](#json-backend-settings)          |[JSON][4001]                             |
|[file.yaml](#yaml-backend-settings)          |[YAML][4002]                             |

##### File Permission 
The file backend only requires read permissions for the configured JSON or YAML files. These permissions must be granted to the local Datadog Agent user (`dd-agent` on Linux, `ddagentuser` on Windows).

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "JSON File Backend" %}}

##### Datadog.yaml configuration

The backend configuration for JSON file secrets is structured as YAML following this schema:

```yaml
# datadog.yaml
secret_backend_type: file.json
secret_backend_config:
  file_path: /path/to/json/file
```

The backend secret is referenced in your Datadog Agent configuration file with `ENC`:

```yaml
# datadog.yaml

api_key: "ENC[{json_property_name}"

```
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "YAML File Backend" %}}

> ##### Datadog.yaml Configuration

Author: @hush-hush What is your opinion?

## Overview

The Datadog Agent help you securely manage you secrets by integrating with a number of external secrets management solutions:
- AWS Secrets Manager
- AWS SSM
- Azure KeyVault
- Hashicorp Vault
- File JSON
- File YAML

> Instead of hardcoding sensitive values like API keys or passwords in plaintext within configuration files, the Agent can retrieve them dynamically at runtime.

Reviewer 4: Thanks for sharing, my preference is actually Rahul's new iteration since it's easier to parse and identify what secrets management solutions we support. I want to move guide customers more towards recommended options that custom binaries, etc.

### How it works

> To reference a secret in your configuration, use the `ENC[<secret_id>]` notation. This tells the Agent to resolve the value using either the embedded `datadog-secret-backend` or your configured secret retrieval executable. The backend resolves the placeholder using your secret store and injects the plain-text value into the config at runtime. The secret is fetched and loaded into memory but is never written to disk or sent to the Datadog backend.

Reviewer: Let's not mentioned `datadog-secret-backend`, it means nothing to customers. We should instead speak of "backend supported by the Agent"/"OOTB support"/...

I'm not sure `he backend resolves the placeholder using your secret store and injects the plain-text value into the config at runtime.` adds a lot here, WDYT ?

> To reference a secret in your configuration, use the `ENC[<secret_id>]` notation. This tells the Agent to resolve the value using either the natively supported executable or your configured secret retrieval executable. The secret executable resolves the placeholder using your secrets management solution. It then injects the plain-text value into the config at runtime. The secret is fetched and loaded into memory but is never written to disk or sent to the Datadog backend.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To reference a secret in your configuration, use the `ENC[<secret_id>]` notation. This tells the Agent to resolve the value using either the natively supported executable or your configured secret retrieval executable. The secret executable resolves the placeholder using your secrets management solution. It then injects the plaintext value into the config at runtime. The secret is fetched and loaded into memory but is never written to disk or sent to the Datadog backend.
```

**Note**: You cannot use the `ENC[]` syntax in `secret_*` settings like `secret_backend_command`.

## Options for retrieving secrets

### Option 1: Using the Agent to resolve secrets from supported secret management solutions

*Note*: This option is not supported in Windows.

> Starting in Agent version 7.69, the Datadog Agent includes a natively supported secret executable. This update allows you to configure the backend executable directly by setting the `secret_backend_type` and `secret_backend_config` options in the `datadog.yaml` file. 

Author: A little confused by this suggestion--isn't the embedded executable the one native solution? "A number" suggests multiple native solutions.

`secret_backend_type` is where the type of the backend is specified, and `secret_backend_config` is where additional configuration relevant for pulling secrets is included. To use this embedded executable, add the following code to your `datadog.yaml` file:

```yaml
secret_backend_type: <backend_type>
secret_backend_config:
  <KEY_1>: <VALUE_1>
```

More specific setup instructions depend on the backend type used. Refer to the appropriate link for further information: 

{{% collapse-content title="AWS Secret and SSM" level="h4" expanded=false id="id-for-anchoring" %}}
The secret executable utility supports the following AWS services:

|Backend Type                                 | AWS Service                             |
|---------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|
|`aws.secrets` |[AWS Secrets Manager][1000]                 |
|`aws.ssm` |[AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store][1001] |

#### AWS session

> Supported AWS backends can leverage the default credential provider chain as defined by the [AWS SDKs][1002] and [CLI][1003]. As a result, the following order of precedence is used to determine the AWS backend service credential:

Author: I'll just remove this section entirely.

1. **Environment variables**: Defined as environment variables within the Datadog Agent service configuration on the Datadog Agent host system

2. **CLI configuration file**: Only the default CLI configuration file of the Datadog Agent user, such as `${HOME}/.aws/config` or `%USERPROFILE%\.aws\config`, is supported. The Datadog Agent user is typically `dd-agent`.

3. **Instance profile credentials**: Container or EC2 hosts with an assigned [IAM instance profile][1004]

Using environment variables or session profiles are more complex. They must be configured within the service (daemon) environment configuration or the `dd-agent` user home directory on each Datadog Agent host. 

Using IAM user access keys or an EC2 instance profile are simpler configurations which do not require additional Datadog Agent host configuration.

##### Instance profile instructions

Datadog **strongly recommends** using the [instance profile method][1006] of retrieving secrets, as AWS handles all environment variables and session profiles for you. 

> To use an instance profile, create an IAM role in the same account where your AWS services are running. When setting up the role, specify the **Trusted Entity Type** as **AWS Service**. Select the appropriate service, such as **EC2** if you're working with an EC2 instance. This IAM role is then available for use by instances of the selected service. 

Author: You found this [doc](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/security/how-to-use-the-aws-secrets-manager-agent/) for AWS Secrets, however, with the reduction in information in this section as a result of the code review, I think that linking to this doc instead would just confuse the customer more (since the doc is about a product called the "Secrets Manager Agent" which isn't what the customer necessarily needs). Also, AWS SSM equivalent [doc](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/integration-ps-secretsmanager.html) is even more confusing and less relevant.

After the size reductions, this instance profile section is only 4-5 sentences, so I think that we should just keep it as-is.

> Next, attach a permissions policy to the IAM role. The specific policy you need depends on whether you're using [AWS Secrets Manager][1000] or [AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store][1001]. 

Author: There are 3 main permissions that need to be added--the trust policy, the assume role policy, and the backend-specific policy (like `GetSecretValue`). You might be able to figure out a way to assign multiple policies individually to a vm, but roles were designed to aggregate policies, so I think that it would be a best practice.

Then, configure the trust policy for the role and be sure to replace `${Service}` with the name of the service you selected earlier:

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Principal": {
                "Service": "${Service}.amazonaws.com"
            },
            "Action": "sts:AssumeRole"
        }
    ]
}

> ```

Author: When I say service, I mean `ec2` for example (as opposed to fargate). I'll mention ec2 as an example.

| `aws_access_key_id` | AWS IAM user access key ID |
| `aws_secret_access_key` | AWS IAM user access key secret |

<div class="alert alert-info">
In <i>most</i> cases, you only need to set the <code>aws_region</code> in the <code>aws_session</code> to match the region where the target Parameter Store (aws.ssm) or Secrets Manager (aws.secrets) secret is located.
</div>

When working with single strings, setting `force_string: true` in the backend configuration ensures the secret is treated as a string value.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "AWS Secrets" %}}

##### IAM permission policy (if using an instance profile)

To allow resources such as EC2 or ECS instances to access your specified secrets, create an IAM permission policy similar to the following example. For more details on granting resource access to secrets, see the [AWS Secrets Manager official documentation][101]. 

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "secretsmanager:GetSecretValue"
      ],
      "Resource": [
        "arn:aws:secretsmanager:${Region}:${Account}:secret:${SecretNameId}"
      ]
    }
  ]
}

> ```

Author: Refer [here](https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/30712#discussion_r2267802762). After removing some sections, I think that the instance profile step is small and clean enough to keep.

> After completing this step, follow the [instance profile instructions](#instance-profile-instructions) to complete the setup.

Author: Removed.

##### Backend settings

| Setting           | Description                                  |
| ------------------|----------------------------------------------|
| `backend_type`    | Backend type                                 |
| `secret_id`       | Secret friendly name or Amazon Resource Name |
| `aws_session`     | AWS session configuration                    |

#### Backend configuration

<div class="alert alert-info">
The <code>secret_backend_type</code> must be set to <code>aws.secrets</code>.
</div>

The backend configuration for AWS Secrets Manager secrets is structured as YAML following this schema:

```yaml
# /etc/datadog-agent/datadog.yaml
---
secret_backend_type: aws.secrets
secret_backend_config:
  aws_session:

>     aws_region: {regionName}

Author: Yes, for aws.secrets. The following error appears without specifying it: `2025-08-11T17:54:40Z | ERROR | failed to retrieve secret value error="operation error Secrets Manager: GetSecretValue, failed to resolve service endpoint, endpoint rule error, Invalid Configuration: Missing Region"`

```

> If you grant the correct permissions on both the secret and the KMS customer-managed key, AWS tests cross-account access to Secrets Manager secrets. For more details, see the [AWS Secrets Manager documentation][101]

Author: That was a bad copy and paste. I've removed the paragraph.

  - **Note**: The full ARN format is required when accessing secrets from a different account where the AWS credential or `sts:AssumeRole` credential is defined.
  
The **secretKey** is the JSON key referring to the actual secret that you are trying to pull the value of.

```yaml
# /etc/datadog-agent/datadog.yaml

api_key: ENC[{secretId};{secretKey}]

```

The AWS Secrets Manager can store multiple key-value pairs within a single secret. A backend configuration using Secrets Manager has access to all the keys defined in the secret. For example, assuming an AWS Secrets Manager secret ID of `My-Secret-Backend-Secret`:

```json
{
    "SecretKey1": "SecretValue1",
    "SecretKey2": "SecretValue2",
    "SecretKey3": "SecretValue3"
}
```

```yaml
# /etc/datadog-agent/datadog.yaml
---
secret_backend_type: aws.secrets
secret_backend_config:
  aws_session:
    aws_region: us-east-1
```

```yaml
# /etc/datadog-agent/datadog.yaml
property1: ENC[My-Secret-Backend-Secret;SecretKey1]
property2: ENC[My-Secret-Backend-Secret;SecretKey2]
property3: ENC[My-Secret-Backend-Secret;SecretKey3]
```

> 
> You can define multiple secret backends, of the same or different types, in your yaml configuration. This allows you to use several supported backends (`file.yaml`, `file.json`, `aws.ssm`, and `aws.secrets`) within your Datadog Agent setup.

Author: ```suggestion
```

**Note**: You cannot use the `ENC[]` syntax in `secret_*` settings like `secret_backend_command`.

## Options for retrieving secrets

### Option 1: Using the Agent to resolve secrets from supported secret management solutions

> Starting in Agent version 7.69, the Datadog Agent includes a natively supported secret executable. This update allows you to configure the backend executable directly by setting the `secret_backend_type` and `secret_backend_config` options in the datadog.yaml file. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Starting in Agent version 7.69, the Datadog Agent includes a natively supported secret executable. This update allows you to configure the backend executable directly by setting the `secret_backend_type` and `secret_backend_config` options in the `datadog.yaml` file. 
```

> `secret_backend_type` is where the type of the backend is specified, and `secret_backend_config` is where additional configuration relevant for pulling secrets is included. To use this embedded executable, in your datadog.yaml file, add:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`secret_backend_type` is where the type of the backend is specified, and `secret_backend_config` is where additional configuration relevant for pulling secrets is included. To use this embedded executable, in your `datadog.yaml` file, add:
```

```yaml
secret_backend_type: <backend_type>
secret_backend_config:
  <KEY_1>: <VALUE_1>
```

<!-- -------------------------------------------- START OF SECTION --------------------------------------------->

# <!-- pre AWS tabs -->

> More specific setup instructions depends on the backend type used. Refer to the appropriate link for further information: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
More specific setup instructions depend on the backend type used. Refer to the appropriate link for further information: 
```

{{% collapse-content title="AWS Secret and SSM" level="h4" expanded=false id="id-for-anchoring" %}}
The secret executable utility supports the following AWS services:

|Backend Type                                 | AWS Service                             |
|---------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|
|`aws.secrets` |[AWS Secrets Manager][1000]                 |
|`aws.ssm` |[AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store][1001] |

> #### AWS Session

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### AWS session
```

> Supported AWS backends can leverage the Default Credential Provider Chain as defined by the [AWS SDKs][1002] and [CLI][1003]. As a result, the following order of precedence is used to determine the AWS backend service credential:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Supported AWS backends can leverage the default credential provider chain as defined by the [AWS SDKs][1002] and [CLI][1003]. As a result, the following order of precedence is used to determine the AWS backend service credential:
```

1. **Environment Variables**. These environment variables would have to be defined as environment variables within the Datadog Agent service configuration on the Datadog Agent host system.

2. **CLI Configuration File**. Only the default CLI Configuration File of the Datadog Agent user is supported, for example, `${HOME}/.aws/config` or `%USERPROFILE%\.aws\config`. The Datadog Agent user is typically `dd-agent`.

> 3. **Instance Profile Credentials**. Container or EC2 hosts with an assigned [IAM Instance Profile][1004]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. **Instance Profile Credentials**. Container or EC2 hosts with an assigned [IAM instance profile][1004]
```

Using environment variables or session profiles are more complex as they must be configured within the service (daemon) environment configuration or the `dd-agent` user home directory on each Datadog Agent host. 

> Using IAM User Access Keys or an EC2 Instance Profile are simpler configurations which do not require additional Datadog Agent host configuration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using IAM user access keys or an EC2 instance profile are simpler configurations which do not require additional Datadog Agent host configuration.
```

> ##### Instance Profile Instructions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
##### Instance profile instructions
```

To use an instance profile, start by creating an IAM role in the same account your services (sush as EC2 or ECS) are running. When setting up the role, specify the "trusted entity type" as `AWS Service`, and select the appropriate service (for example, choose `EC2` if you're working with an EC2 instance). This IAM role is then available for use by instances of the selected service. 

Next, attach a permissions policy to the IAM role. The specific policy you need depends on whether you're using [AWS Secrets Manager][1000] or [AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store][1001]. 

Then, configure the trust policy for the role and be sure to replace `${Service}` with the name of the service you selected earlier:

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Principal": {
                "Service": "${Service}.amazonaws.com"
            },
            "Action": "sts:AssumeRole"
        }
    ]
}
```

Finally, for the instance that is retrieving secrets, assign the IAM role you just created. After assigning the role, restart the instance to apply the changes.

> ##### AWS Session Settings

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
##### AWS session settings
```

The following `aws_session` settings are available on all supported AWS Service backends:

| Setting | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `aws_region` | AWS Region |
| `aws_profile` | AWS Session Profile |
| `aws_role_arn` | AWS sts:AssumeRole ARN |
| `aws_external_id` | AWS sts:AssumeRole ExternalId |
| `aws_access_key_id` | AWS IAM User Access Key ID |
| `aws_secret_access_key` | AWS IAM User Access Key Secret |

<div class="alert alert-info">
In <i>most</i> cases, you only need to set the <code>aws_region</code> in the <code>aws_session</code> to match the region where the target Parameter Store (aws.ssm) or Secrets Manager (aws.secrets) secret is located.
</div>

When working with single strings, setting `force_string: true` in the backend configuration ensures the secret is treated as a string value.

# <!-- ################## A W S - secrets ##################### -->
{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "AWS Secrets" %}}

##### IAM Permission Policy (if using an Instance Profile)

> Create an IAM Permission Policy similar to the following example to allow resources (such as EC2 or ECS instances) to access your specified secrets. For more details on granting resource access to secrets, see the [AWS Secrets Manager official documentation][101]. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Create an IAM permission policy similar to the following example to allow resources (such as EC2 or ECS instances) to access your specified secrets. For more details on granting resource access to secrets, see the [AWS Secrets Manager official documentation][101]. 
```

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "secretsmanager:GetSecretValue"
      ],
      "Resource": [
        "arn:aws:secretsmanager:${Region}:${Account}:secret:${SecretNameId}"
      ]
    }
  ]
}

```

> This is just one step in setting up the instance profile. Make sure to follow the [Instance Profile Instructions](#instance-profile-instructions) to complete the setup.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is one step in setting up the instance profile. Make sure to follow the [instance profile instructions](#instance-profile-instructions) to complete the setup.
```

##### Backend settings

| Setting           | Description                                  |
| ------------------|----------------------------------------------|
| `backend_type`    | Backend type                                 |
| `secret_id`       | Secret friendly name or Amazon Resource Name |
| `aws_session`     | AWS session configuration                    |

#### Backend configuration

<div class="alert alert-info">

> The <strong>secret_backend_type</strong> must be set to <code>aws.secrets</code>.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The <code>secret_backend_type</code> must be set to <code>aws.secrets</code>.
```

</div>

The backend configuration for AWS Secrets Manager secrets has the following pattern:

```yaml
# /etc/datadog-agent/datadog.yaml
---
secret_backend_type: aws.secrets
secret_backend_config:
  aws_session:
    aws_region: {regionName}

```

AWS supports and tests cross-account access to Secrets Manager secrets, but you must grant the correct permissions on both the secret and the KMS customer-managed key. For more details, see the [AWS Secrets Manager documentation][101]

The backend secret is referenced in your Datadog Agent configuration file using the **ENC** notation, taking the form **ENC[secretId;secretKey]**. 

> The **secretId** value can be either of the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `secretId` value can be either of the following:
```

- The secret friendly name. For example `/DatadogAgent/Production`
- The full ARN format. For example `arn:aws:secretsmanager:us-east-1:123456789012:secret:/DatadogAgent/Production-FOga1K`.
  - **Note**: The full ARN format is required when accessing secrets from an a different account where the AWS credential (or `sts:AssumeRole` credential) is defined.
  
The **secretKey** is the json key referring to the actual secret that you are trying to pull the value of.

```yaml
# /etc/datadog-agent/datadog.yaml

api_key: ENC[{secretId};{secretKey}]

```

> The AWS Secrets Manager can store multiple key-value pairs within a single secret. A backend configuration using Secrets Manager has access to all the keys defined in the secret. For example, assuming an AWS Secrets Manager secret id of `My-Secret-Backend-Secret`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The AWS Secrets Manager can store multiple key-value pairs within a single secret. A backend configuration using Secrets Manager has access to all the keys defined in the secret. For example, assuming an AWS Secrets Manager secret ID of `My-Secret-Backend-Secret`:
```

```json
{
    "SecretKey1": "SecretValue1",
    "SecretKey2": "SecretValue2",
    "SecretKey3": "SecretValue3"
}
```

```yaml
# /etc/datadog-agent/datadog.yaml
---
secret_backend_type: aws.secrets
secret_backend_config:
  aws_session:
    aws_region: us-east-1
```

```yaml
# /etc/datadog-agent/datadog.yaml
property1: ENC[My-Secret-Backend-Secret;SecretKey1]
property2: ENC[My-Secret-Backend-Secret;SecretKey2]
property3: ENC[My-Secret-Backend-Secret;SecretKey3]
```

> You can define multiple secret backends, of the same or different types, in your yaml configuration. This allows you to use several supported backends (file.yaml, file.json, aws.ssm, and aws.secrets) within your Datadog Agent setup.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can define multiple secret backends, of the same or different types, in your yaml configuration. This allows you to use several supported backends (`file.yaml`, `file.json`, `aws.ssm`, and `aws.secrets`) within your Datadog Agent setup.
```

#### Configuration examples

> In the following examples, assume the AWS Secrets Manager secret's **friendly name**  is `/DatadogAgent/Production` and its **value** contains the Datadog Agent `api_key`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the following examples, assume the AWS Secrets Manager secret's friendly name is `/DatadogAgent/Production` and its value contains the Datadog Agent `api_key`:
```

```json
{
    "api_key": "••••••••••••0f83"
}
```

> Each of the following examples access the secret from the Datadog Agent configuration yaml file(s) as such:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each of the following examples access the secret from the Datadog Agent configuration YAML file(s) as such:
```

```yaml
# /etc/datadog-agent/datadog.yaml

#########################
## Basic Configuration ##
#########################

## @param api_key - string - required
## @env DD_API_KEY - string - required
## The Datadog API key to associate your Agent's data with your organization.
## Create a new API key here: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings
#
api_key: ENC[/DatadogAgent/Production;api_key] 
```

> ##### AWS IAM User Access Key with Secrets Manager secret in same AWS account:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
##### AWS IAM user access key with Secrets Manager secret in same AWS account:
```

```yaml
# /etc/datadog-agent/datadog.yaml
---
secret_backend_type: aws.secrets
secret_backend_config:
  aws_session:
    aws_region: us-east-1
```
<!-- SECRET MANAGER LINKS -->
[101]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager/latest/userguide/intro.html

{{% /tab  %}}

# <!-- ################## A W S - ssm ##################### -->

{{% tab "AWS SSM" %}}

> ##### IAM Permission Policy (if using an Instance Profile)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
##### IAM permission policy (if using an instance profile)
```

> Create an IAM Permission Policy similar to the following example to allow resources (such as EC2 or ECS instances) to access your specified secrets. For more details on granting resource access to secrets, see the [AWS Secrets Manager official documentation][201]. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Create an IAM permission policy similar to the following example to allow resources (such as EC2 or ECS instances) to access your specified secrets. For more details on granting resource access to secrets, see the [AWS Secrets Manager official documentation][201]. 
```

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
				"ssm:GetParameters",
				"ssm:GetParameter",
				"ssm:GetParametersByPath",
				"ssm:DescribeParameters"
			],
      "Resource": [
        "arn:aws:ssm:${Region}:${Account}:parameter/${ParameterPathWithoutLeadingSlash}"
      ]
    }
  ]
}

```

You can use a wildcard when specifying the parameter path `Resource` (for example, use `datadog/*` for all resources within in the `datadog` folder).

This is just one step in setting up the instance profile. Make sure to follow the [Instance Profile Instructions](#instance-profile-instructions) to complete the setup.

##### Backend settings

| Setting           | Description                             |
| ------------------| ----------------------------------------|
|`backend_type`     | Backend type                            |
|`parameter_path`   | SSM parameters prefix, recursive        |
|`parameters`       | List of individual SSM parameters       |

#### Backend configuration

<div class="alert alert-info">

> The <strong>secret_backend_type</strong> must be set to <code>aws.ssm</code>.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The <code>secret_backend_type</code> must be set to <code>aws.ssm</code>.
```

</div>

> The backend configuration for [AWS SSM Parameter Store][200] secrets has the following pattern:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The backend configuration for [AWS SSM Parameter Store][200] secrets is structured as YAML following this schema:
```

| Backend Type                            | Azure Service          |
| ----------------------------------------|------------------------|
| [azure.keyvault](#azure-authentication) | [Azure Keyvault][2000] |

##### Azure Authentication

Datadog recommends using Managed Identities to authenticate with Azure. This allows you associate cloud resources with AMI accounts and removes the need to put sensitive information in your `datadog.yaml` configuration file.

##### Managed identity

To access your Key Vault, create a Managed Identity and assign it to your Virtual Machine. Then, configure the appropriate role assignment on the Key Vault to allow that identity to access its secrets.

#### Backend configuration

| Setting       | Description                |
|---------------|----------------------------|
| `keyvaulturl` | URL of the Azure keyvault  |

<div class="alert alert-info">
In your <code>datadog.yaml</code> config, the <strong>secret_backend_type</strong> must be set to <code>azure.keyvault</code>, the <strong>backend_type</strong> must be set to <code>azure.keyvault</code> and the <strong>keyvaulturl</strong> must be set to your target Azure Key Vault URL.
</div>

> The backend configuration for Azure Key Vault secrets has the following pattern:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The backend configuration for Azure Key Vault secrets is structured as YAML following this schema:
```

```yaml
# /etc/datadog-agent/datadog.yaml
---
secret_backend_type: azure.keyvault
secret_backend_config:
  keyvaulturl: {keyVaultURL}
```

The backend secret is referenced in your Datadog Agent configuration file using the **ENC** notation.

```yaml
# /etc/datadog-agent/datadog.yaml

api_key: "ENC[{secretHandle}]"
```

> Azure Keyvault uses JSON to store multiple key-value pairs within a single secret. In this example, assume there is Azure secret with the **Secret Name** `MySecret`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Azure Keyvault uses JSON to store multiple key-value pairs within a single secret. In the following example, assume there is an Azure secret named `MySecret`:
```

```json
{
    "ddapikey": "SecretValue1",
    "ddappkey": "SecretValue2",
    "ddorgname": "SecretValue3"
}
```

To reference a specific key within that secret, use a semicolon (`;`) to separate the secret name from the key. The notation in the `datadog.yaml` config file looks like **ENC[SecretName;SecretKey]**. 

If this semicolon is not present, the entire string is treated as the plain text value of the secret.
When the semicolon is used, `SecretKey` refers to the specific JSON key whose value you want to retrieve from within the `MySecret` secret.

```yaml
# /etc/datadog-agent/datadog.yml
api_key: "ENC[MySecret;ddapikey]"
app_key: "ENC[MySecret;ddappkey]"
property3: "ENC[MySecret;ddorgname]"
```

#### Configuration example

In the following example, assume the Azure secret's name is `MySecretName` and its value contains the Datadog Agent `api_key`:

```json
{
    "ddapikey": "••••••••••••0f83"
}
```

> Assume also that the Key Vault's URL is `https://mykeyvault.vault.azure.net`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Assume also that the Key Vault's URL is `https://mykeyvault.vault.azure.net`.
```

## @env DD_API_KEY - string - required
## The Datadog API key to associate your Agent's data with your organization.
## Create a new API key here: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings
#
api_key: "ENC[MySecretName;ddapikey]" 
...
...
...
secret_backend_type: azure.keyvault
secret_backend_config:
  keyvaulturl: https://mykeyvault.vault.azure.net
```
<!-- AZURE LINKS -->

[2000]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/Azure/key-vault/secrets/quick-create-portal

{{% /collapse-content %}} 

# <!-- ######### H A S H I C O R P ############ -->
{{% collapse-content title="Hashicorp Vault Backend" level="h4" expanded=false id="id-for-anchoring" %}}
##### Supported Backends

The secret executable utility supports the following Hashicorp services:

| Backend Type                               | Hashicorp Service                                  |
| ------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------- |
| [hashicorp.vault](#hashicorp-auth-session) | [Hashicorp Vault (Secrets Engine Version 1)][3000] |

##### Hashicorp Auth Session

Hashicorp Vault supports a variety of authentication methods. The ones supported by this module are:

> 1. **User Pass Auth**. A Vault username and password defined on the backed configuration's `vault_session` section.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **User Pass Auth:** A Vault username and password defined on the backend configuration's `vault_session` section
```

> 2. **AWS Instance Profile** If your machine has an attached AWS IAM role with the correct permissions, you don't need to define any secret credentials or passwords in your config. See the [AWS Instance Profile section](#aws-instance-profile-instructions) and the [official Hashicorp AWS auth method instructions][3002] for more information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. **AWS Instance Profile**. If your machine has an attached AWS IAM role with the correct permissions, you don't need to define any secret credentials or passwords in your config. See the [AWS instance profile section](#aws-instance-profile-instructions) and the [official Hashicorp AWS auth method instructions][3002] for more information.
```

Using environment variables is more complex, as they must be configured within the service (daemon) environment or in the `dd-agent` user’s home directory on each Datadog Agent host. In contrast, using App Roles and Users (local or LDAP) is simpler, as it does not require additional configuration on each Datadog Agent host.

#### General Instructions to set up Hashicorp Vault

> 1. Run your Hashicorp Vault. For more information on how to do this, please look at the [official Hashicorp Vault documentation][3001]. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Run your Hashicorp Vault. For more information, see the [official Hashicorp Vault documentation][3001]. 
```

1. When running the vault, it outputs the variables `VAULT_ADDR` and `VAULT_TOKEN`. Export these as environment variables.

> 1. To store your secrets in a certain path, run `vault secrets enable -path=<your path> -version=1 kv` **NOTE**: Only version 1 of the Hashicorp Secrets Engine is supported at this time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. To store your secrets in a certain path, run `vault secrets enable -path=<your path> -version=1 kv`. 
  - **Note:** Only version 1 of the Hashicorp Secrets Engine is supported at this time.
```

> 1. To add your key, run `vault kv put <your path> apikey=your_real_datadog_api_key`. To retrieve the key `vault kv get <your path>`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. To add your key, run `vault kv put <your path> apikey=your_real_datadog_api_key`. To retrieve the key, run `vault kv get <your path>`.
```

1. To write a policy that gives the permission to pull secrets from your vault, create a `*.hcl` file, and include the following permission:
```
path "<your path>" {
  capabilities = ["read"]
}
```

>   Then, run `vault policy write <policy-name> <path to *.hcl file>`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Run `vault policy write <policy-name> <path to *.hcl file>`.
```

Reviewer 3: Hey @rahulkaukuntla I think that's a great idea! Sorry about the formatting btw. I was making suggestions while looking at the file so I missed that bit. Great catch!

> 1. Choose the method of authenticating to your vault. If using the AWS Instance Profile method, run `vault auth enable aws`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Choose the method of authenticating to your vault. If using the AWS instance profile method, run `vault auth enable aws`. 
```

> ### AWS Instance Profile Instructions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### AWS instance profile instructions
```

Datadog strongly recommends that you authenticate using the Instance Profile method if you are running your Hashicorp Vault from an AWS-connected machine. 

> First follow the setup in the [Instruction Profile Instructions](#instance-profile-instructions) to attach a policy to your IAM role. Then, add the `sts:GetCallerPolicy` permission to this policy:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First, follow the setup in the [instruction profile instructions](#instance-profile-instructions) to attach a policy to your IAM role. Next, add the `sts:GetCallerPolicy` permission to this policy:
```

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": "sts:GetCallerIdentity",
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
```

After you have added the necessary permissions, run the below to write an authentication-specific vault policy:

```
vault write auth/aws/role/<Name of AWS IAM Role> \
  auth_type=iam \
  bound_iam_principal_arn=arn:aws:iam::<AWS Account ID>:role/<Name of AWS IAM Role> \
  policies=<name of *.hcl file policy> \
  max_ttl=768h
```

##### Backend Settings

| Setting | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `backend_type` | Backend type |
| `vault_address` | DNS/IP of the Hashicorp Vault system |
| `vault_tls_config` | TLS Configuration to access the Vault system |
| `vault_session` | Authentication configuration to access the Vault system |

###### vault_session Settings
The following `vault_session` settings are available:

| Setting | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `vault_role_id` | App Role ID from Vault |
| `vault_secret_id` | Secret ID for the app role |
| `vault_username` | Local Vault user |
| `vault_password` | Password for local vault user |

> | `vault_ldap_username` | LDAP User with Vault access |
> | `vault_ldap_password` | LDAP Password for the LDAP user |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `vault_ldap_username` | LDAP user with Vault access |
| `vault_ldap_password` | LDAP password for the LDAP user |
```

| `vault_auth_type` | The backend service if using an instance profile |
| `vault_aws_role` | The name of the IAM user if vault_auth_type is 'aws' |
| `aws_region` | The AWS region of the machine if vault_auth_type is 'aws' |

###### TLS Settings

| Setting | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `ca_cert` | Path to PEM-encoded CA cert file to verify the Vault server SSL certificate |
| `ca_path` | Path to directory of PEM-encoded CA cert files to verify the Vault server SSL certificate |
| `client_cert` | Path to the certificate for Vault communication |
| `client_key` | Path to the private key for Vault communication |
| `tls_server` | If set, is used to set the SNI host when connecting via TLS |
| `Insecure` | Enables or disables SSL verification (bool) |

#### Backend Configuration

<div class="alert alert-info">

> The <strong>backend_type</strong> must be set to <code>hashicorp.vault</code>.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The <code>backend_type</code> must be set to <code>hashicorp.vault</code>.
```

</div>

> The path to the secret and the backend secret itself is referenced in your Datadog Agent configuration file using the **ENC** notation. Use a semicolon to separate these two values. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The path to the secret and the backend secret itself is referenced in your Datadog Agent configuration file with `ENC`. Use a semicolon to separate these two values, as seen in the example below.
```

> The backend configuration for Hashicorp Vault has the following pattern:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The backend configuration for Hashicorp Vault is structured as YAML following this schema:
```

##### File Permission 
The file backend only requires read permissions for the configured JSON or YAML files. These permissions must be granted to the local Datadog Agent user (`dd-agent` on Linux, `ddagentuser` on Windows).

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "JSON File Backend" %}}

##### JSON Backend settings
| Setting | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `backend_type` | Backend type |
| `file_path`| Absolute directory path to the JSON file |

##### Backend configuration
<div class="alert alert-info">
The <strong>backend_type</strong> must be set to <code>file.json</code>.
</div>

The backend configuration for JSON file secrets has the following pattern:

```yaml
# /etc/datadog-agent/datadog.yaml
---
secret_backend_type: file.json
secret_backend_config:
  file_path: /path/to/json/file
```

The backend secret is referenced in your Datadog Agent configuration file using the **ENC** notation.

```yaml
# /etc/datadog-agent/datadog.yaml

api_key: "ENC[{json_property_name}"

```

##### Configuration Examples

In the following examples, assume the JSON file is `/opt/production-secrets/secrets.json` and contains the Datadog Agent `api_key`:

```json
{
  "api_key": "••••••••••••0f83"
}
```

> This is how to then access the JSON secret from the Datadog Agent configuration YAML file(s):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following examples show how to access the JSON secret from the Datadog Agent configuration YAML file(s):
```

```yaml
# /etc/datadog-agent/datadog.yaml

#########################
## Basic Configuration ##
#########################

## @param api_key - string - required
## @env DD_API_KEY - string - required
## The Datadog API key to associate your Agent's data with your organization.
## Create a new API key here: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings
#
api_key: "ENC[api_key]" 
```

```yaml
# /etc/datadog-agent/datadog.yaml
---
secret_backend_type: file.json
secret_backend_config:
  file_path: /opt/production-secrets/secrets.json
```
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "YAML File Backend" %}}

##### YAML Backend Settings

| Setting | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `backend_type` | Backend type |
| `file_path`| Absolute directory path to the YAML file |

##### Backend Configuration
<div class="alert alert-info">
The <strong>backend_type</strong> must be set to <code>file.yaml</code>.
</div>

> The backend configuration for JSON file secrets has the following pattern:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The backend configuration for JSON file secrets is structured as YAML following this schema:
```

```yaml
# /etc/datadog-agent/datadog.yaml
---
secret_backend_type: file.yaml
secret_backend_config:
  file_path: /path/to/yaml/file
```

> The backend secret is referenced in your Datadog Agent configuration file using the **ENC** notation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The backend secret is referenced in your Datadog Agent configuration file with `ENC`:
```

				"ssm:GetParametersByPath",
				"ssm:DescribeParameters"
			],
      "Resource": [
        "arn:aws:ssm:${Region}:${Account}:parameter/${ParameterPathWithoutLeadingSlash}"
      ]
    }
  ]
}

```

You can use a wildcard when specifying the parameter path `Resource`. For example, use `datadog/*` for all resources within the `datadog` folder.

Finally, for the instance that is retrieving secrets, assign the IAM role you just created. After assigning the role, restart the instance to apply the changes.

#### Datadog.yaml configuration

The AWS System Manager Parameter Store supports a hierachical model. For example, assuming the following AWS System Manager Parameter Store paths:

```sh
/DatadogAgent/Production/ParameterKey1 = ParameterStringValue1
/DatadogAgent/Production/ParameterKey2 = ParameterStringValue2
/DatadogAgent/Production/ParameterKey3 = ParameterStringValue3
```

The parameters can be fetched like so:

```yaml
# /etc/datadog-agent/datadog.yaml
---
secret_backend_type: aws.ssm
secret_backend_config:
  aws_session:
    aws_region: us-east-1

property1: "ENC[/DatadogAgent/Production/ParameterKey1]"
property2: "ENC[/DatadogAgent/Production/ParameterKey2]"

> property3: "ENC[/DatadogAgent/Production/ParameterKey3]"

Author: From support cases, I have known that customer tend to favor using the secret friendly name, so I am inclined to just use the secret friendly name in the example.

{{% /collapse-content %}} 

{{% collapse-content title="Azure Keyvault Backend" level="h4" expanded=false id="id-for-anchoring" %}}

##### Supported backends

The secret executable utility supports the following Azure services:

| Backend Type                            | Azure Service          |
| ----------------------------------------|------------------------|
| [azure.keyvault](#azure-authentication) | [Azure Keyvault][2000] |

##### Azure authentication

Datadog recommends using Managed Identities to authenticate with Azure. This allows you associate cloud resources with AMI accounts and removes the need to put sensitive information in your `datadog.yaml` configuration file.

##### Managed identity

To access your Key Vault, create a Managed Identity and assign it to your Virtual Machine. Then, configure the appropriate role assignment on the Key Vault to allow that identity to access its secrets.

#### Datadog.yaml configuration

The backend configuration for Azure Key Vault secrets is structured as YAML following this schema:

```yaml
# /etc/datadog-agent/datadog.yaml
---
secret_backend_type: azure.keyvault
secret_backend_config:

>   keyvaulturl: {keyVaultURL}

Author: No I think that this name is self-documenting. afaict, there is only one url for a key vault.

If this semicolon is not present, the entire string is treated as the plaintext value of the secret.
When the semicolon is used, `SecretKey` refers to the specific JSON key whose value you want to retrieve from within `MySecret`:

```yaml
# /etc/datadog-agent/datadog.yml
api_key: "ENC[MySecret;ddapikey]"
app_key: "ENC[MySecret;ddappkey]"
property3: "ENC[MySecret;ddorgname]"
```

[2000]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/Azure/key-vault/secrets/quick-create-portal

{{% /collapse-content %}} 

{{% collapse-content title="Hashicorp Vault Backend" level="h4" expanded=false id="id-for-anchoring" %}}
##### Supported backends

The secret executable utility supports the following Hashicorp services:

| Backend Type                               | Hashicorp Service                                  |
| ------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------- |
| [hashicorp.vault](#hashicorp-auth-session) | [Hashicorp Vault (Secrets Engine Version 1)][3000] |

#### General instructions to set up Hashicorp Vault
1. Run your Hashicorp Vault. For more information, see the [official Hashicorp Vault documentation][3001]. 

> 2. When running the vault, it outputs the variables `VAULT_ADDR` and `VAULT_TOKEN`. Export these as environment variables.

Author: Steps 2-4 are Hashicorp-specific, so I think that just linking to the Hashicorp official documentation is sufficient. I will just remove these steps.

3. To store your secrets in a certain path, run `vault secrets enable -path=<your path> -version=1 kv`. 

>   - **Note**: Only version 1 of the Hashicorp Secrets Engine is supported at this time.

Author: Done.

                "Service": "${Service}.amazonaws.com"
            },
            "Action": "sts:AssumeRole"
        }
    ]
}
```

Next, add the `sts:GetCallerPolicy` permission to this policy:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": "sts:GetCallerIdentity",
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
```

Finally, for the instance that is retrieving secrets, assign the IAM role you just created. After assigning the role, restart the instance to apply the changes.

Next, run the following command to write an authentication-specific vault policy:

```
vault write auth/aws/role/<Name of AWS IAM Role> \
  auth_type=iam \
  bound_iam_principal_arn=arn:aws:iam::<AWS Account ID>:role/<Name of AWS IAM Role> \
  policies=<name of *.hcl file policy> \
  max_ttl=768h
```

#### Configuration example

In the following example, assume the Hashicorp Vault secret path prefix is `/Datadog/Production` with a parameter key of `api_key`:

```sh
/DatadogAgent/Production/api_key: (SecureString) "••••••••••••0f83"
```

Each of the following examples access the secret from the Datadog Agent configuration YAML file(s) as such:

```yaml

> # /etc/datadog-agent/datadog.yaml
> 
> #########################
> ## Basic Configuration ##
> #########################
> 
> ## @param api_key - string - required
> ## @env DD_API_KEY - string - required
> ## The Datadog API key to associate your Agent's data with your organization.
> ## Create a new API key here: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings
> #

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# datadog.yaml
```

{{% collapse-content title="JSON or YAML File Secret Backends" level="h4" expanded=false id="id-for-anchoring" %}}

|Backend Type                                 | AWS Service                             |
|---------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|
|[file.json](#json-backend-settings)          |[JSON][4001]                             |
|[file.yaml](#yaml-backend-settings)          |[YAML][4002]                             |

##### File Permission 
The file backend only requires read permissions for the configured JSON or YAML files. These permissions must be granted to the local Datadog Agent user (`dd-agent` on Linux, `ddagentuser` on Windows).

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "JSON File Backend" %}}

##### Datadog.yaml configuration

The backend configuration for JSON file secrets is structured as YAML following this schema:

```yaml
# /etc/datadog-agent/datadog.yaml
---
secret_backend_type: file.json
secret_backend_config:
  file_path: /path/to/json/file
```

The backend secret is referenced in your Datadog Agent configuration file with `ENC`:

```yaml
# /etc/datadog-agent/datadog.yaml

api_key: "ENC[{json_property_name}"

```

> {{% /tab %}}

Reviewer: Let's merge snippet and give a proper example (same for YAML).

WDYT of:

You can use a JSON file to store secrets locally.

As an example if we have a JSON file in `/path/to/secret.json` containing:

```yaml
{
  "prod":
    {
      "datadog_api_key": "your api key"
    }
}
```

You can use the following configuration to pull secrets from it:
```yaml
# datadog.yaml

api_key: ENC[prod.datadog_api_key]

secret_backend_type: file.json
secret_backend_config:
  file_path: /path/to/secret.json
```

This `Role` gives access to the `Secret: database-secret` in the `Namespace: database`. The `RoleBinding` links up this permission to the `ServiceAccount: datadog-agent` in the `Namespace: default`. This needs to be manually added to your cluster with respect to your resources deployed.

### Option 3: Creating your own custom executable

To retrieve secrets, the Agent uses an external executable that you provide. The executable is used when new secrets are discovered and are cached for the lifecycle of the Agent. If you need to update or rotate a secret, you must restart the Agent to reload it.

This allow you to use any secret management solution and gives you full control on how the Agent accesses secrets.

> The Agent sends to this executable a JSON payload over standard input containing a list of secret handles to resolve. Your executable will fetch each secret and return them in a JSON format through a standard output.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Agent sends to this executable a JSON payload over standard input containing a list of secret handles to resolve. Then, your executable fetches each secret and return them in a JSON format through a standard output.
```

This allow you to use any secret management solution and gives you full control on how the Agent accesses secrets.

The Agent sends to this executable a JSON payload over standard input containing a list of secret handles to resolve. Your executable will fetch each secret and return them in a JSON format through a standard output.

The following example shows what the Agent sends to your executable on STDIN:
```
{
  "version": "1.0",
  "secrets": ["secret1", "secret2"]
}
```

* `version` (string): The format version.
* `secrets` (list of strings): Each string is a handle for a secret to fetch.

The executable responds through the following STDOUT output:
```
{
  "secret1": {"value": "decrypted_value", "error": null},
  "secret2": {"value": null, "error": "could not fetch the secret"}
}
```

* `value` (string): The secret value to be used in the configurations. This can be `null` in the case of an error.
* `error` (string): An error message or `null`.

> If a secret fails to be resolved (either by returning a non-zero exit code or a non-null error), the related configuration is ignored by the Agent.

Reviewer 3: i think we can ignore the Vale notice for line 495

    password: decrypted_db_prod_password
```

You can configure the Agent to use the binary to resolve secrets by adding the following:
```
secret_backend_command: /path/to/binary
```

### Agent security requirements

The Agent runs the provided executable as a sub-process. The execution patterns differ on Linux and Windows.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Linux" %}}

On Linux, your executable must:

* Belong to the same user running the Agent (`dd-agent` by default, or `root` inside a container).
* Have no rights for `group` or `other`.

> * Have at least exec rights for the owner.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Have at least the `execute` rights for the owner.
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Windows" %}}

On Windows, your executable must:

* Have read/exec for `ddagentuser` (the user used to run the Agent).
* Have no rights for any user or group except for the `Administrators` group, the built-in `Local System` account, or the Agent user context (`ddagentuser` by default).
* Be a valid Win32 application so the Agent can execute it (for example, a PowerShell or Python script doesn't work).

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> **Note**: Your executable shares the same environment variables as the Agent.

Author: The note is a matter-of-fact statement, meant to ease any customers confusion as to whether the executable's env vars are the same as the Agent's env vars. I think that it is fine as-is.

This `Role` gives access to the `Secret: database-secret` in the `Namespace: database`. The `RoleBinding` links up this permission to the `ServiceAccount: datadog-agent` in the `Namespace: default`. This needs to be manually added to your cluster with respect to your resources deployed.

### Option 3: Creating your own custom executable

> To retrieve secrets, the Agent uses an external executable that you provide. The executable is used when new
> secrets are discovered and are cached for the lifecycle of the Agent. If you need to update or rotate a secret, you must restart the Agent to reload it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To retrieve secrets, the Agent uses an external executable that you provide. The executable is used when new
secrets are discovered and are cached for the lifecycle of the Agent. If you need to update or rotate a secret, you must restart the Agent to reload it..

This allow you to use any secret management solution and gives you full control on how the Agent access secrets.
```

> The Agent sends this executable a JSON payload over standard input containing a list of secret handles. The executable fetches each secret and returns them in a JSON format through standard output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Agent sends to this executable a JSON payload over standard input containing a list of secret handles to resolve. Your executable will fetches each secret and returns them in a JSON format through standard output.
```

The following example shows what the Agent sends to your executable on STDIN:
```
{

>   "version": "1.0",

Reviewer: For another PR but we'll want to document version `1.1` once 7.69 is out.

  "secrets": ["secret1", "secret2"]
}
```

* `version` (string): The format version.
* `secrets` (list of strings): Each string is a handle for a secret to fetch.

The executable responds through the following STDOUT output:
```
{
  "secret1": {"value": "decrypted_value", "error": null},
  "secret2": {"value": null, "error": "could not fetch the secret"}
}
```

* `value` (string): The secret value to be used in the configurations. This can be `null` in the case of an error.
* `error` (string): An error message or `null`.

> If a secret fails to resolve (either by returning a non-zero exit code or a non-null error), the related configuration is ignored by the Agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a secret fails to be resolve (either by returning a non-zero exit code or a non-null error), the related configuration is ignored by the Agent.
```

> **Never output sensitive information on `stderr`**. If the binary exits with a different status code than `0`, the Agent logs the standard error output of the executable for troubleshooting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Never output sensitive information on `stderr`**. If the binary exits with a different status code than `0`, the Agent logs the standard error output of your executable for troubleshooting.
```

    password: decrypted_db_prod_password
```

You can configure the Agent to use the binary to resolve secrets by adding the following:
```

> secret_backend_command: /path/to/datadog-secret-backend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
secret_backend_command: /path/to/binary
```

```

### Agent security requirements

The Agent runs the provided executable as a sub-process. The execution patterns differ on Linux and Windows.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Linux" %}}

> On Linux, the executable must:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On Linux, your executable must:
```

* Belong to the same user running the Agent (`dd-agent` by default, or `root` inside a container).
* Have no rights for `group` or `other`.
* Have at least exec rights for the owner.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Windows" %}}

> On Windows, the executable must:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On Windows, your executable must:
```

* Have read/exec for `ddagentuser` (the user used to run the Agent).
* Have no rights for any user or group except for the `Administrators` group, the built-in `Local System` account, or the Agent user context (`ddagentuser` by default).
* Be a valid Win32 application so the Agent can execute it (for example, a PowerShell or Python script doesn't work).

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> **Note**: The executable shares the same environment variables as the Agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: Your executable shares the same environment variables as the Agent.
```

Some secret management tools automatically add a line break when exporting secrets through files. You can remove these line breaks by setting `secret_backend_remove_trailing_line_break: true` in [the datadog.yaml configuration file][8], or use the environment variable `DD_SECRET_BACKEND_REMOVE_TRAILING_LINE_BREAK` to do the same, especially in containerized environments.

### Autodiscovery variables in secret handles

> It's also possible to use [Autodiscovery][1] variables in secret handles. The Agent resolves these variables before resolving the secret. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is also possible to use [Autodiscovery][1] variables in secret handles. The Agent resolves these variables before resolving the secret. For example:
```

This `Role` gives access to the `Secret: database-secret` in the `Namespace: database`. The `RoleBinding` links up this permission to the `ServiceAccount: datadog-agent` in the `Namespace: default`. This needs to be manually added to your cluster with respect to your resources deployed.

### Option 3: Creating your own custom executable

To retrieve secrets, the Agent uses an external executable that you provide. The executable is used when new
secrets are discovered and are cached for the lifecycle of the Agent. If you need to update or rotate a secret, you must restart the Agent to reload it.

> The Agent sends this executable a JSON payload over standard input containing a list of secret handles. The executable fetches each secret and returns them in a JSON format through standard output.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Agent sends this executable to a JSON payload over standard input containing a list of secret handles. The executable fetches each secret and returns them in a JSON format through standard output.
```

Author: JSON payload goes into the executable, not the other way around.

Reviewer 3: Oh I see what you mean. My bad! Great catch!

> Here's what the Agent sends to your executable on STDIN:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following example shows what the Agent sends to your executable on STDIN:
```

```
{
  "version": "1.0",
  "secrets": ["secret1", "secret2"]
}
```

> * `version` (string): the format version.
> * `secrets` (list of strings): each string is a handle for a secret to fetch.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `version` (string): The format version.
* `secrets` (list of strings): Each string is a handle for a secret to fetch.
```

> The executable should respond through STDOUT:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The executable will respond through the following STDOUT output:
```

```
{
  "secret1": {"value": "decrypted_value", "error": null},
  "secret2": {"value": null, "error": "could not fetch the secret"}
}
```

> * `value` (string): the secret value to be used in the configurations. This can be `null` in the case of an error.
> * `error` (string): an error message or `null`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `value` (string): The secret value to be used in the configurations. This can be `null` in the case of an error.
* `error` (string): An error message or `null`.
```

    password: decrypted_db_prod_password
```

You can configure the Agent to use the binary to resolve secrets by adding the following:
```
secret_backend_command: /path/to/datadog-secret-backend
```

### Agent security requirements

The Agent runs the provided executable as a sub-process. The execution patterns differ on Linux and Windows.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Linux" %}}

On Linux, the executable must:

* Belong to the same user running the Agent (`dd-agent` by default, or `root` inside a container).
* Have no rights for `group` or `other`.
* Have at least exec rights for the owner.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Windows" %}}

On Windows, the executable must:

* Have read/exec for `ddagentuser` (the user used to run the Agent).

> * Have no rights for any user or group except for the `Administrators` group, the built-in `Local System` account, or the Agent user context (`ddagentuser` by default)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Have no rights for any user or group except for the `Administrators` group, the built-in `Local System` account, or the Agent user context (`ddagentuser` by default).
```

[5]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-secret-backend/blob/main/docs/aws/secrets.md
[6]: /agent/configuration/agent-commands/#restart-the-agent
[7]: /opentelemetry/setup/ddot_collector/
[8]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/blob/7.69.x/pkg/config/config_template.yaml#L867

> [9]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/blob/7.69.x/pkg/config/config_template.yaml#L880

Author: Removed the links.
